good evening i'm judy woodruff
on the news hour tonight a
gunman opens fire at
a Planned Parenthood clinic in
Colorado Springs wounding
civilians and at least
four police officers than a
solemn remembrance for the
victims of the Paris
attacks and the lasting effects
on those who survived I saw for
people's lives
extinguished very very quickly
right in front of me and that I
was that
obligation is to give something
back to the people I meet in the
course of my
life and it's Friday mark
shields and David Brooks join us
to analyze the
week's news all that and more
on tonight's PBS Newshour
gunman is holed up inside a
Planned Parenthood clinic in
Colorado Springs
tonight
wounding multiple people and
engaging in gun battles with
police police said they
are trying to evacuate as many
people from the building as it
can they haven't
yet identified the suspect
lieutenant Catherine Buckley
with the Colorado
Springs Police Department
briefed reporters a short time
ago there are an
unknown amount of casualties at
this point we know that the
scene is going to
be going on for the next several
hours because there are items
that the suspect
took with him to the Planned
Parenthood building that we have
to check out once
the scene is stabilized this is
not a stable I seen at this time
we'll have
more live from the scene right
after this news summary
thousands of
protesters marched through
Chicago's rainy retail district
today voicing
their anger against the shooting
death of a black teenager by a
chicago
policeman last year
Michigan Avenue the day after
Thanksgiving usually filled with
holiday
shoppers today flooded
with protesters
thousands marched along the main
artery while others block store
entrances to
take part in so-called blackout
Friday their goal to shut down
the busy retail
district to protest the shooting
death of seventeen year old
McDonald come
together and its power and
impact when you touch the
economy and that's what
we're trying to do with no
repercussions they could do that
charge hundreds of
other children dead with no
charger today's demonstrations
are the latest
since the city's police
department released video
Tuesday night of the
shooting it showed Officer
Jason van Dyk who is white
firing at McDonald who was black
16 times most struck him while
he was on
the ground
McDonald who was holding a knife
had allegedly punctured the
tires of a
police car prior to the video's
release then dark was charged
with first-degree
murder but today many loading
the Reverend Jesse Jackson one
of the events
organizers said protest will
continue will escalate marginal
miss him out
until those who are the
beneficiaries of our largest
able to come to the table
demonstrators are calling for
the resignation of the city's
police chief
and one of its top prosecutor in
a separate Chicago case today
police
announced first-degree murder
charges against a man suspected
in the death of
a nine year old boy as gang
retaliation police believe 27
year old quarry Morgan
and two others Lord Tai Shan Li
from a park into an alley and
killed him
earlier this month it was
evidently to get back at the
boy's father Chicago
Police Superintendent Garry
McCarthy said the arrest was
made possible by
police coming forward with
information we got an awful lot
of intelligence from
the community
this was very clearly not a case
of no snitching but there was a
lot of fear
which is completely
understandable if if if you have
a monster was willing to
assassinate Emanuel what is a
person likely to do they know
that somebody is
cooperating with the case
detectives working on a
particular murder one of
the other suspects is already in
jail on an unrelated gun charge
the other is
still at large overseas Belgian
authorities said today they have
charged
an unidentified man with
committing quote terrorist
attacks he was taken
into custody Thursday in
Brussels but it's unclear if he
is linked to one of
the Paris attackers Saleh
Aslam remains at large two weeks
after he rampage through Paris
elsewhere in
Brussels security was tight as a
popular Christmas market open
for business day
after the government lowered the
alert level by one notch there
was an
escalating war of words over the
downing of a russian warplanes
by a Turkish
fighter jet near the Syrian
border earlier this week today
Russian Foreign
Minister Sergey Lavrov announced
that visa free travel between
Turkey and
Russia will no longer exists he
said the move was necessary
because turkey has
become a conduit for terrorists
who was 60 born we have more and
more questions
about the real intentions about
and it's real commitment to
eradicating terrorism
particularly in Syria and its
interest in the normalization of
the situation in
the Syrian Arab Republic so far
turkish President Ridgid type
Burdwan has not
publicly apologized for the
plane's downing although he said
he has tried
but failed to reach russian
President Vladimir Putin by
phone today at a
hospital opening he expressed
hope that he could meet with the
russian leader
next week climate
summit in Paris
gonna bodies dead on Monday
there will be a meeting in Paris
I believe Mr Putin
will be there attending
I like to meet him there and
maybe talk about this in a
reasonable way we are
very disturbed by the
fact that this issue
escalated needlessly there is a
big potential for cooperation
between the
two countries we do not want
this issue to hurt our current
or potential
relations Putin's foreign
affairs adviser said the kremlin
had received
the meeting request but wouldn't
say if it was possible a new
round of
airstrikes pounded northern
Syria today killing up to a
dozen people including
five children they targeted the
city of Rocca the islamic states
de facto
capital syrian activists said
they appeared to hit a school
overtaken by
Isis police in Nigeria suspected
Boko Haram militants in a
suicide bombing in
a Shiite parade today local
religious leaders said at least
21 people were
killed a male suicide bomber
blew himself up during the
procession in
Nigeria's Cano state and Shiite
Muslims were walking from Cano
to the city of
Zaria a second suicide bomber
was detained before he could
detonate his
explosives Pope Francis arrived
in Uganda today and told the
gathered
crowds africa is a quote
continent of hope he hailed the
way Uganda has opened its arms
to refugees
from the Democratic Republic of
Congo and South Sudan on Sunday
the Pope moves
on to the Central African
Republic where civil war has
raged between Christian
and Muslim militias in recent
years aids is now the main cause
of death for
african teen agers the UN agency
for children UNICEF reported
that since 2008
related death have tripled in
children between the ages of 10
and 19 one reason
the global push to eradicate HIV
focused on babies and not as
much on the second
decade of childhood and in China
a prominent human rights
activist was
sentenced to six years in prison
as a nationwide crackdown on
dissent the
Chinese government continues
forty eight-year-old Guo Feng
Zhong was
arrested for quote gathering
crowds to disturb social order
after a week-long
peaceful demonstration outside a
newspaper office two weeks ago
here in
the USA shoppers packed stores
this Black Friday hunting for
bargains and
door-buster deals National
Retail Federation estimates
nearly a hundred
and thirty-six million people
will shop during the four day
weekend that is up
two million from last year and
in a shortened day of trading on
Wall Street
the Dow Jones Industrial Average
lost 15 points to close near
17,800 Nasdaq rose
11 points and the S&P 500 rose
one point but the week the Dow
fell a tenth of a
percent the nasdaq added nearly
half a percent and the S&P was
nearly unchanged
still to come on the news hour
the latest honor shooting at a
Planned
Parenthood clinic in Colorado
Springs Harris two weeks after
terror attacks
cast a shadow over the City of
Light keeping kids off the
streets and out of
gangs and much more
very tense hours in central
Colorado this afternoon just
ended and the mayor
of Colorado Springs confirmed
the suspected gunman has been
taken into
custody hearing screening boston
has a report for the latest
we're going to
Mary McCarthy she's the denver
bureau chief for feature story
news joins us by
phone now from a media command
center near the scene where you
just heard the
mayor and the chief of police
there what they have to say
that's right Mayor John
Suthers just focus couple of
moments ago things that
remarkable turn of events
they did get the suspects to
surrender yet been barricaded
inside the Planned
Parenthood with an unknown
number of people for somewhere
between five and
six hours since shortly before
noon here today in Colorado and
after gunfire
throughout the day it's holding
11 people injured transported to
local
hospitals five of those police
officers were injured by what
appears to be found
higher but now just within the
past few moments that have come
to an end it is
no longer an active shooter
situation it is now being
considered a crime scenes
this is a significant area
around this specific clinic was
actually shut down
you could send in pictures to
some of our staff of the local
businesses that
were essentially on lockdown
after noon to say the least but
sympathy for the
people in that shopping center
for the strip mall area where
the planned
parenthood is located there was
so much speculation all day was
that even the
fans chanted that was targeted
we know in deeper fact now that
the gunman who
has not been identified was
targeting Planned Parenthood for
what remains
unknown reason it's also known
that he brought devices that
could be dangerous
pleaser they need to take
several hours now to go in and
check out the whole
thing to see if those devices
are safe represent a threat so
he did go there
well armed with the weapon he
was using other item was
targeting that situation
and the nearby shop of course on
lockdown because there was so
much
uncertainty about who was
actually being targeted
initially and whether there
could be more powerful than
they're done the danger is that
the immediate
security situation give us an
idea of the atmosphere there
mean that the
pictures that we've seen or a
number of different police
agencies from local to
the Nationals that's right they
do get a list of some of the
agencies involved
finding the Eid el Paso County
Sheriff's Department of warranty
Colorado Springs
Police Department who've been
leading the way and this ones we
know it's their
officers who have been injured
also the University of Colorado
at Colorado Springs their police
forces
abroad and and other federal
agencies United Way got involved
setting up the
number for local people to call
either tonight in today that
there they or
their loved ones who might have
been out shopping getting their
hair cut it
before Mon or you know what that
while we're at the Planned
Parenthood today
which was open for business just
like any other day to make sure
that their
loved ones were safe
finally this is a process that
happened throughout the day
not everybody was released at
the same time that's right and
from the
information coming out now
against them at the latest press
conference was still
ongoing
it appears that people are still
inside of what I've heard and
again the gunman
has been removed
so it's not been created an
active situation but the
officials said they
needed to go check and see the
people who were there were
injured which means
that it's still a situation that
very much ongoing feature story
newtonian
Colorado Springs thanks so much
thanks
it's been two weeks since deadly
terrorist attacks rock Paris
France
observed a national day of
mourning today to mark the
somber occasion
president Francois alone and
attended a ceremony with injured
survivors and the
families of those killed in the
attacks on the streets of Paris
memorial to the
slain revisited by locals the
French flag was displayed
seemingly everywhere
around the city
those traumatized by the attacks
have been offered psychological
counseling
one therapist may have special
insight he was there during an
attack on a cafe
special correspondent Malcolm
Brabant caught up with him in
Copenhagen back
home after witnessing for people
being murdered psychotherapist
among coal
Clough is deploying all his
professional skills to minimize
the anguish two weeks
on how traumatized you think you
are I can't scale that really on
a one to 10
scale I still have signs of
trauma shock and post-traumatic
stress is very much
still there can you describe the
simple things that are troubling
you still sure
flashbacks of the gunman very
clear there's been a dream that
has occurred
several times about me being in
the whole way of my house and
looking down
to a sitting room and I can see
shadows on the wall and I'm I'm
with my travel
friend who was with me in Paris
I turned around to Satan look
look there's
there's a break in the best
thieves in the in the sitting
room I turned around
to look at him so no worries
behind me in a dream I look back
he's not there
and I look forward again to look
into the living room and the
government is
right in front of me shooting at
me this time last yr wake up
you're going to be
permanently damaged I know I
don't think that all is that
because you personally
and professionally have the
tools that enable you to deal
with this
yeah I think I mean I've been
denounced therapy since I was 19
mins been always
be my interest has been
psychotherapy psychology
somewhere that I have tools
quite robust sense of self so
what's the tools using two to
make sure that you're
going to heal things that aren't
stimulating anything this
relaxing so
what I've done is I've moved
most of my work around so I'm
working as little as
possible for next two weeks and
making sure I take things easy
with good
friends you know walking rather
than running driving slowly
rather than
driving to a bit too fast
spacing out my appointment so I
don't get agitated or stressed
most of those
caught up in the Paris attacks
were civilians unlike members of
the armed
forces or emergency services
most civilians don't have the
training or
mental armor to be able to cope
with images of carnage Marco
clubs area of
expertise does not extend to
terrorism and so he sought out a
psychologist who
specializes in treating victims
of torture and soldiers were
given a
headphone and then you choose a
sound that you like and then you
choose a
movement that you like and you
choose a memory that you like
and so you have a
memory in your mind and you have
a movement of your body and you
have an
input from one of your senses
you're hearing and then by
combining those
three you have a safe space like
a feeling of a safe memory and
from that
safe space you then revisit the
traumatic experience which for
me was
the the shooting so rather than
being completely caught with all
my guard down
as I was that Friday night I can
then revisited with my god
someone up again
because I'm not we're part of me
is in Paris and part of me is in
my state
space and to me is diving I've
done a lot of diving knives
younger so I could
see a dive site I went too often
in Egypt I was there you
visualize
visualizing you have a movement
you have a sound that go with it
goes with it it
makes it quite easy to Orissa
easier to have a safe space with
me when i'm
looking back about traumatic
experience the shooting was
survivor's guilt is a
common reaction among those
embroiled in violence disasters
or other tragedies
but not coke love is determined
to maximize another image
response something he calls
survivors obligation I think the
obligation to
live to live fully and to give
something back to the people
that I meet in my
life I saw for people's lives
extinguished very very quickly
right in
front of me and that I was that
obligation is that to give
something
back to the people I meet in the
course of my life not just
prefer
professionally or personally and
whenever I feel like relaxing or
just
wrapping myself up in my own
bubble and chilling out for a
bit then that's wrong
I remember that for people who I
saw no longer have the
opportunity to give
something to somebody else
could be a loved one family
the bus driver could be anybody
anybody in the street the
pedestrian random the
Kurds and that will keep me in a
more living space rather than in
more
reclusive contact me they're
closed down space that makes
sense so is that
something that all of the
survivors have to do individual
part I was a all the
people who were in shock but
witnessed getting people getting
shot or similar
things they will get to take
home with them something
meaningful from that
event and I really really hope
they take something where they
find more meaning
rather than less me in the UK is
there any justification feeling
guilty about
surviving
it's a process I think when
people see other people getting
shot dead when
civilians other civilians
getting shot down it's a process
we have to go
through to figure out you know
should have done more could have
done more but
what if I had them or what would
have been what my contribution
have been then
I think these are very
existential questions that you
run into when you see
people getting shot
right in front of you
Marco Polo Club says that he was
impressed with the level of
psychological support of the
French authorities gave to the
survivors in the
immediate aftermath of the
attacks but he's at pains to
stress that there is no
broad spectrum path to recovery
that every survivor has to
navigate that road
individually the PBS Newshour
improvement in Copenhagen
coming up on the news hour the
rise of presidential candidate
Ted Cruz and
Marco Rubio mark shields and
David Brooks take a look at this
week's news
and reclaiming face-to-face
conversation in the digital age
but first tonight we
have another look at race
matters solutions PBS Newshour
special
correspondent sharyl another
goal is examining specific
solutions to racial
problems in our year-long series
as we reported earlier police in
chicago today
announced murder charges against
a man for killing a nine year
old boy is part
of what they are calling gang
retaliation conversation tonight
focuses
on preventing gang-related black
on black crime she traveled the
south
central los angeles to meet
Naomi McSwain and learn about a
solution that
keeps kids out of gangs and in
doing so is keeping them alive
this crime scene
the result of a gang-related
shooting is not unusual here in
South Los Angeles
and recently police attributed
80 percent of the homicides in
South LA to
gang violence no one knows this
violence and its consequences
better than Naomi
McSwain once a gang member
herself years ago she was a
member of the notorious
crips still today one of the
largest and most violent street
gangs in the country
but unlike many gang members
McSwain escaped later finishing
college and
becoming a journalist who
reported on gangs and look for
solutions in 2010
McSwain became executive
director of the twenty year old
wooden center founded by
her late model favored room she
set up storefront havens to get
children off
South LA's mean streets after
her thirty five-year-old son L
wooden was killed in
one of them in a drive-by
shooting now and next wave thank
you for joining us
I think most of our viewers will
want to know right away how did
you get out of
the gang life my mother she saw
her daughter changing I went
from
practically straight-a student
to practically Street test this
was in high
school and I was doing drugs she
didn't know all of that but she
saw the signs
of it you know my belligerents
truancy she pretty much all my
grades and my
attitude changing but it was
because of the gang activity at
a drugs and I was
doing so what did she do she did
two things one she sent me the
church I was
16 years old and I remember her
saying those church people are
the only one
that can help you and the second
thing she did was she enrolled
me and I youth
center and I self-destruction
and it was right here in Los
Angeles and they
actually pay this to come we we
got minimum wage so it was a
great incentive
to go and with the two of those
to church on the one hand to
Jimmy about
morals and making me think about
the things that I was doing and
then the
Youth Center given me that
practical they actually help me
fill out my
financially and college
applications they talked to me
about my attitude and
so between the two of those
things change but it seems is of
little has
really changed that in your life
of course but there's so many
gangs still
in this area and all over the
country it's still not as bad as
it was back did
in the eighties and nineties but
still right now you have some of
the highest
rates of gang violence that you
had in the past I'm seeing a
resurgence you
know I've heard stories you know
I have talked to some of the
young man I've
talked to police
ask that question
what the the police say have
told me is that some of the
coming out of prison
they're coming back and saying
you know what have you guys been
putting in work
you know why haven't you settle
these old debts and so they you
know gotten
some of the Union engaged in
this that's what the police have
said in an area
like this is so few jobs this so
few opportunities for young
people that
drive them into the gang life
first thing when I want to say
is it's not simple you know
there's no one
solution every child is
different but for the most part
the young men have
told me you know yes we need
jobs we need education those
things we need they
realize that they need and
substance abuse treatment
you know because for the most
part it you're not working you
don't have any
money that's that's a great
motivation to steal I have one
and he told me he
got arrested for case the liquor
store and he ran and he was
hungry and he
didn't have a job
and have the money
and still something and you know
get arrested for it they say
that you know
there's black-on-black crime and
why are black people taking
ownership you see
what you're doing with
these young people
affecting racism well we we tell
the kids that you're all
brothers and
sisters you know we're primarily
african-american Latino here we
told him
that the city of Los Angeles was
founded by by Mexicans and a
number of them of
Africans who said so we say that
you're actually in a city that
was born
multicultural so you have no
reason fighting because you are
you related so
we we get them to buy into that
you know we are family and they
love that so how
do you get the children in here
when there's so much temptation
in the
streets
yeah the parents the parents
want their kids to succeed just
about every parent
that i've talked to they come in
the door and they say can you
help my child
you know like most mostly
because of education they want
to hurry so they
largely come for that but
there's that small number that's
you know he's
trouble he's getting mixed up
with gays can you help them so
that's why we have
a life skills programs so we we
deal with that we have the
discussion groups
with the young man with a talk
about life and what drives you
and what
happened to you because that's
that's where we were found there
he was killed
it became very personal you see
it in the news but when it hits
home it really
hurts so you share all this with
these children and they can
handle it is not
too traumatic know it's
interesting whenever we tell
them the story the room
goes quiet they could be talking
in chattering and then I i say
you know my
cousin was killed
goals quiet is very respectful
and I asked them you know has
this ever
happened to you and your family
been shot in the reason his my
local my dad
my mom you know they have their
own stories and gives very
emotional and so
I I just tell them I say that's
why we're here we don't want
this to happen
to you and they they listen
that's one of the greatest
motivator for homework
because I i bring it around and
I say you know being educated
you'll be able
to get a great job our own your
own company and and you won't
have to still
because you have money you know
I explain it to them like that I
said
that's why you do your homework
if you don't learn that you're
not going to be
able to do it when you go to
college so you need to learn it
now you know and
just break it down to them and
explain to them and they say
they go off and
they do their homework so it's
real simple you know I mean I
just wish more
people would try it so what is
your goal here at the center and
how you achieving
it
academic excellence and good
citizenship that's our mission
statement the United
Way says there's a direct
correlation between education
and crime people who
are more educated or less likely
to commit crime because they
have the money
they don't have to run into a
liquor store is still a baguette
chips and so
we're real heavy on education
making sure I kids can go to
college if they
want to are you at all
optimistic that you can overcome
the challenges that so
many communities like this face
you can't say the whole world
God never even
called you to stay the whole
world that's the reason why he
has people
working in different places so
you have to just find your niche
in the world and
do your best at that and to
support and partner with others
about you can thank
you so much they only
mexican teen thank you to
and out of the race for the
white house we are two months
away from the critical
Iowa caucus votes
political director Lisa
Desjardins reports on the next
phase for the
republican field campaigns are
now eight months in eight months
instead cruises
announcement kicked off the race
for the 2016 GOP nomination
followed quickly by
sixteen other Republicans
entering the ring now those
faces and the real horse
race between them is starting to
come into focus I feel like I've
been at the
movies for way too long watching
way too many previews and the
main feature
hasn't even started yet but
there is some jelling in the
race
Terry Holt is a republican
strategist and former staffer
for President George
W Bush the past few months
candidate have dropped out first
Rick Perry then Scott Walker and
most
recently bobby Jindal this is
not my time now hope says the
remaining
contenders wanna make a move
everybody thinks they're going
to get hit by
lightning and maybe somebody
will the question is whether or
not they can
bottle that lightning and carry
it through other races a close
look at the
polls shows sparks at least of
potential nominees in late
August donald Trump in
red was soaring but the rest
of the pack was close together
October ben Carson in blue broke
away but again the rest of the
field was a
model of dots now this month a
few weeks of consistency Carson
down as Marco
Rubio and crews move up into
spots three and four and jeb
bush holds onto 5th for
Rubio and crews especially
this is a critical moment
GOP strategist Leslie Sanchez
the reason she knows why
increased concerns about
terrorism Isis and national
security because of that you're
starting to see
some movement with Ted Cruz
Marco Rubio who've been talking
about foreign policy
strongly to taking a stronger
stand against lights and what
they would do in
their role at the white house
newbios rise comes as he spent
more time talking
about how he would deal with
Isis this is a civilizational
struggle between the
values of freedom and liberty
and radical Islamic terror what
happened in
Paris could happen here there is
no middle ground I approve this
message
because there can be no
arrangement or negotiation
either they when are we do
whose meanwhile is portrayed
himself as a strong tea party
leader unflinching
against Isis and critical of
President Obama I am leading the
fight in the you
s Senate to stop President Obama
and Hillary Clinton's plan to
bring to
america
tens of thousands of Syrian
Muslim refugees why because the
administration
itself admits it cannot get
these refugees to determine if
they're Isis
terrorists and better among them
if those to stay on their
current hat into
a head-to-head competition with
Donald Trump it could force an
even broader
foreign policy faceoff idea of
building a safe zone in Syria
we've had a fairly
effective bombing campaign over
the last couple days we have to
deal with them
from a position of strength so
think of this as the critical
build-up to Iowa
and the early state votes
candidates that have been
propped up by the polls are
going to have to start
proving that they can get votes
in these actual primaries and
caucuses states and
that's when the real fight will
begin it may not yet be the real
fight but voters
may be starting to separate who
has enough muscle to make it to
the final
round for the PBS Newshour I'm
Lisa Desjardins and that brings
us to the
analysis of shields and Brooks
that is syndicated columnist
Mark shields and
New York Times columnist David
Brooks gentlemen welcome and I
do want to get
to the presidential campaign in
just a moment but Mark I wanna
start with the
story that we reported
earlier this evening
a protest in Chicago about the
shooting last year young black
teenager by a
white Chicago policeman has now
been charged with murder what
does this in
these other police shootings
we've seen over the past year
say about efforts to
heal the relationship between
police and the black communities
well it's it's a continuing
challenge and terrible tragedy
personally in this
case we have this that age old
question who will protect the
people when the
police violate the law and from
every indication here you have
all the
evidence pointing to a police
officer essentially executing a
seventeen year
old boy and the authorities
sitting on it for 400 days
prosecuting attorney not
going forward and take me beyond
the beyond the tragedy it's the
other story
reported on was that of Taishan
lead at nine year old a nine
year old who was
killed as a basically a hostage
as retribution in a gang fight
within the
community there's no tougher job
in America being a competent be
in a major
city in this country
big rally and good cops what
happened in Chicago Chicago
execution and that's I
think they are you can call it
it makes the cop on the beat the
overwhelming
good that much tougher David we
keep reporting on these
incidents and we
think we've turned a corner but
then they just seem to keep
happening you
know we need structural change
this and they were since 2007
there have been
four hundred police shootings in
Chicago and only one of them has
been ruled
unjustified that's just not
credible and so you better have
some structural
changes and I listen i
understand why there has to be
loyalty within the
police force
basically loyalty within the
criminal justice system I was a
police reporter
Chicago time when it was way
more violent even that is right
now
and that stuff and they they
they want to protect each other
and I get that and
the situations are often murky
but you have to build structures
so that when
there is something that goes
wrong there actually is really a
prosecutorial for
somewhere than the system
looking at the system from
hostile I and saying that
something really bad happened
here and if they're exonerating
99.8% of the cops were shooting
people that's probably not right
and so there
has to be a structured to really
investigate these situations and
you
know I've been moving on the
comp cam issue when the these
things for start
happening I was sort of
ambivalent about Comp Cams
because I think they will
affect this civil police
relationship if everyone knows
everything films but the
evidence is mounting that these
cameras and we have another
desperate cam in
this case the evidence is
mounting these are effective and
maybe Cup should be
wearing cameras that were about
cameras public opinion in fact
that these things
are getting attention in the
news media cannot make it if I
think the value of
the cameras is demonstrated in
this case and it is great value
to the the artist
got the good cop as well and
David mentions to 400 police
officers have
been charged in chicago won
shooting of which has been
called unjustified
those 400 this is a city that
that s budget problems like no
other city in
the country really and they paid
out five hundred million dollars
in
settlements because of the
shootings so I mean it it's a
real problem no one can
question david I wanna I wanna
turned this this Friday today
two weeks after
the horrible shootings in Paris
the terrorist attacks is there a
sense that
this efforts you know whether
it's president Hollande of
France President
Obama anyone else that the
efforts to put together some
kind of effective
coalition effort to fight Isis
is any stronger today as a
result of what
happened when I get a little
clarity I mean it's the what's
the definition in
effect
coalition to meet the definition
in effect of coalition has now
been very
bland involved or the russians
because they want to keep Assad
and most of the
rest of the world wants to get
rid of Assad knowing that Assad
is the key
source of the problem here he's
the one who created the
instability in the
genocide the league's decision
is to radicalize and embrace
Isis and so there
was this myth that shimmer in
the early days that we're gonna
have a global
alliance including Putin and
these words coming out of the
crime Wednesday and
according to the controversy
that Russia's having a turkey
that grand jury
which was a bad dream is falling
apart whether we can create a
western alliance
with the Gulf states to defeat
us is another matter but the key
to it is
getting the Sunnis we don't have
the boots on the ground were not
gonna put
the words on the ground if the
reasonable soon as a revolt
against Isis
then nothing will happen and
they're not gonna do it as long
as Assad is really
raining genocide down upon them
so understanding the basic logic
of the
situation
complex logical situation is
really the key think you see any
progress I ICIC
well partly I think there's been
a galvanizing support and
energizing Mrs
Merkel in Germany and that most
peaceful of great powers
contributing to the
effort it's Prime Minister
Cameron and in great britain I
i'm i'm not a book I
know up front but Putin is a tax
out of self-interest that that's
it
if he recognized is that Assad
days are numbered and he's gone
and I i don't
have a problem with him
hastening that departure i just
i just really think that there
is an everyday I
feel badly for the president
because he has a great ability
to express passion
and emotion in a public setting
as he did in charleston did it
Newtown and in this case he is
his words failed him he hasn't
why do you think
that is why I don't i think i
think because he was elected to
end to wars
he's been committed to that
there's no question about it
said it's a belief and
conviction on his part I
think he also understand he
becomes more nuanced and more
cerebral which is at
all times but especially in
matters of national security and
foreign policy
engagement I think he also
understands that the United
States is not going to
lead in this in the to some
degree there is an advantage to
the other countries
actually taken militarily mark I
mean David how do you see the
president
coming coming to this effort
nobody feels good sitting by
while genocide
happens and doing nothing and
that's essentially what has been
done I know
Bill Clinton has said many times
since he left office is greatest
regret was
allowing the genocide in Rwanda
to happen and Barack Obama for
good reasons
are bad as that by while the
slow rolling genocides happen in
Syria and it
could have been prevented but
people within his own
administration were
urging action very early in ways
that maybe could have made a
difference but
he said bye and and and let it
happen again maybe America no
choice but we did
nothing and so it's hard to feel
good about the American rollover
in Syria
over the past five or seven
years and if you don't feel good
about it it's hard
to wax poetic and self-righteous
about it I want to turn you both
quickly to
the presidential campaign when
asked about Rubio and cruise but
first about
Donald Trump mark that the story
that really has persisted all
week that the
claims that donald Trump is made
that there were thousands of
people in New
Jersey cheering after the twin
towers went down there's as far
as I've seen
and have looked there's no
evidence has come forward to
support that but he
continues to insist it happen
he's not backing down how does
this fit into a
presidential campaign does it
make any difference does it
change anything that
a candidate says something that
can't be substantially release
it hasn't been as
far as I mean if we play we say
it's unsubstantiated I mean it
it's
demonstrably false it's
irresponsible it's untrue and
you know we have
predicted nine times
the demise and premature fall of
Donald Trump on this this
podcast same lies ppl
think predicted that republican
voters will choose a governor
and you sign
leases piece that the
first three people out
Governor Scott Walker Governor
Rick Perry and Governor Bobby
Jindal so but
it's cumulus it has to be
republican voters focus and at
some point they do
on wanting to elect a president
they have to know that somebody
who is
contradicted in basic facts is
openly and completely as he is
becomes unacceptable electrical
David how do you see the fallout
from this
yeah I'm doubling down on my
demise theory i think is gonna
collapse I think
it's gonna be like sitting
taking the Oval Office and some
january first I'll
still be predicting demise but
here's my here's my state of the
week for why I
still think that's gonna happen
every four years after iowa new
hampshire
boats they asked about her when
did you make up your mind and
they make up their
mind like a week before a day
before a month before they don't
do it three
months before not that many and
so eighty percent of the voters
are still
undecided Nate Silver had a good
church today in his on his
website or this week
bruce if the polls are
accurately reflecting the way
the real state of the
race it would say eighty
percent undecided
by percent Trump 4% Rubio three
percent crews and I think that's
really where
the race is people may say
they're voting for Trump but
they really make up
their mind last weeks or months
and we are simply just not there
yet so I'm
convinced demise alright finally
with less than a minute let's
get back to the
point at least they shared a
maid marking her piece Rubio and
cruise is
David just mention they are
hanging in there in the middle
what do you see them doing to
distinguish themselves from each
other
and you got less than 30 seconds
well forty four-year-old
cuban-americans Forbes island
states basically Ted Cruz
is operating whose it incredibly
talented debate I've never seen
anybody
better
went on to say presidential
politics but operate on a false
premise and that is
that there are millions of
conservative voters who it's by
the tax and despising
Barack Obama many of them didn't
chose not to vote in 2008 2012
republicans did not nominate
somebody who is this true blue
conservatives he
is going to come out in droves
if he's the nominee wrong David
Cruz Ruby its
resentment vs hope cruises
waxing eloquent against Muslim
Syrian refugees
he's talking about shutting down
the government and he's very
anti-immigrant
Aruba was much more in the
mainstream of the party a little
hopeful on
immigration hopeful about
American foreign policy so we'll
see what
emotional tone Republican Party
is ready for a suspect it's the
Rubio won but who
knows I promise your gonna get
more time to talk about this in
the future David
Brooks mark shields thank you
communicating in person in our
hyper-connected world this is a
major
concern of our latest add to the
NewsHour bookshelf and
reclaiming
conversation the power
of talk in a digital age
sherry Turkle of the
Massachusetts Institute of
Technology continues her
exploration of the evolving
relationship between technology
and humans she
recently sat down with jeffrey
Brown sherry Turkle welcome to
you pleasure to
be close to me we're having a
conversation about the lack of
conversations in our lives when
you see something very specific
problem a loss
of empathy of our ability to
empathize with others explained
that well it's
very typical that when two
people are having lunch they put
a phone on the
table between them and all the
research shows that the presence
of that phone
will do two things to the
conversation it will make the
conversation go to
trial matters and it will
decrease the amount of empathy
that the two people in
the conversation feel toward
each other that phone is a
signal that either of us
can put our attention elsewhere
even if we don't look at it even
a silent phone
discounts and so it's that
feeling that we all are always
potentially elsewhere
that is that it is cutting us
off and we're finding ways
around conversation
the kind of conversation that
open-ended where you you give
time for another
person to sort of take attention
and not go to a phone if there's
a little bit of
the laps and those are the kinds
of conversations where NBC was
born where
intimacy is born and those are
the kind of conversations were
not having with
each other and with our kids and
I'm wondering if the instruments
the
technology kind of please just
pleased to these sort of natural
human anxiety
over you know talking
to one of her
another or the fear of human
contact that we might have
always had and the
new technology helps that well
in my book i argued that we are
vulnerable to
these technologies there's a 40%
decline and all markers for
empathy among
college students with most of it
taking place in the past 10
years that's not
okay so even if meet our phones
do play to our natural
nervousness about being
vulnerable to each other but
that doesn't mean that we can't
we can't pull
ourselves together and say we
need to talk to each other
because it's in
conversation the most human and
humanizing thing that we do that
empathy
is born that intimacy us-born
that relationship as borne do
you see these
new kinds of gadgets as
exponentially different from
other technology isn't it
also the case that new
technology is its come along
from the technology of the
book yes it's Socrates talking
about or the telephone or the
television of
course the couch potato the idea
that we're just focused now we
look at the
television is something we
almost share my yes all this
technology and the
reason this technology took my
attention so much is that it it
does something new
which is that we have the
illusion that we're with each
other even as I'm going
like this we're sharing but
we're not really yes we we
treated as though with
an accessory that has no
psychological impact I just go
like this and I'm I'm
with you but I'm also with my
phone and actually that gesture
has tremendous
psychological effect but because
we're sort of with each other
all the time
it's an old
always on always i'm new
technology we can interrupt the
flow of life but
somehow not taken seriously in
in the latest Pew study
eighty-nine percent of
Americans said that they
interrupted their last social
encounter by looking
at a phone and eighty-two
percent of them said that it
deteriorated the
conversation
so weird my favorite line in my
book kind of author's choice
technologies
technology makes us forget what
we know about life we know we're
doing something
that that's not good
put your hand up in somebody's
face and say excuse me I just
need to interrupt
this conversation for a moment
and yet we do it anyway how far
do you want to
push this in terms of turning
off tuning out unplugging you
know not multitasking
how far to push it what you want
people to do I want people to
take action and
reclaim conversation in the
following ways this book is not
anti-technology
its pro conversation if you're
using technology in a way that
opens out
conversation and your family
with your friends with you
people you care about
i'm for that but if you're using
technology to silence the
conversations
with the people around you then
you have to create sacred spaces
in your home the
kitchen the dining room the car
for me the car is ground zero in
the in the war
to reclaim conversation that is
sacred place I call it a sacred
space at work
conversation increases
productivity and yet people go
into work put on their
headphones in one interview that
somebody called they become
pilots and
their own cock tits they put on
their phones they lay out their
phones they
put open up their computers and
they convinced themselves that
their most
productive when they're focused
on your email when really
they're ignoring you
know the cafeteria the water
cooler than the meetings with
colleagues the times
when really they creativity
collaboration happens create
sacred
spaces in the workplace as well
classrooms five years ago
professors would say I don't
want to be in Dunedin
my students they can do whatever
they want no professors are
staying put away
that laptop because studies show
that it not only takes away the
attention of the
person who's on the laptop from
the class but everyone around
them is like a
circle around
that person thats distracted not
paying attention are you hopeful
I'm very
hopeful young people realize
that something is amiss either
the generation
that fell in love with their
phones and it's very hard for
them to see that
there's a problem but young
people are desperate for the
attention of their
parents who are really not
paying attention to them that's
one of the
surprises in the research that
it's not young people who were
sitting with their
phones if their parents who are
not paying attention to them and
teaching
them that behave yes and
teaching them that behavior
alright the new book is
reclaiming conversation the
power of talking in a
digital age
rhetorical thank you thank you
online don't feel today it
doesn't mean you'll be out of
control the rest of the
year we talked to a behavioral
economist about people spending
habits on Black
Friday and why it's ok to
indulge one day out of the year
you can read why on
our homepage pbs.org / newshour
joining us starting on Monday
for the PBS
Newshour unprecedented look
inside Africa's richest and most
populous
country the four-part Nigeria
pain and promise series with
special
correspondent Nick Schifrin in
Nigerian people do what they
need to live on its
like you don't have
a job opportunities
accountable for what they've
done you can still smell the
blood stains the
walls that starting Monday or
hear on the news hour and a
reminder about some
upcoming program on PBS gwen
Ifill is preparing for
washington week which airs
later tonight here's a preview
after you digested yesterday's
leftovers join us around our
table as we gauge the
american mood we may have a lot
to be thankful for but there's a
lot of worry
out there too we tackle at all
tonight on washington week ed
and that's the
news hour for tonight we will
have online updates on the
Colorado Springs
shooting where the suspect has
been taken into custody
throughout the night
pbs.org / newshour i'm judy
woodruff thank you and good
night
major funding for the PBS
Newshour has been provided by
the end
the William and Flora Hewlett
Foundation helping people build
measurably better
lives
support of these institutions
this program was made possible
by the corporation for public
broadcasting and
by contributions to your
PBS station viewers like